scripts/sanity-sdk/README.md, before:

# Sanity SDK Tests

Master test runner for TypeScript SDK sanity tests of the Bloxchain protocol.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Run core tests (default: secure-ownable, runtime-rbac, guard-controller)
npm run test:sanity-sdk

# Run all tests (core + examples)
npm run test:sanity-sdk:all

# Run example tests only
npm run test:sanity-sdk:examples
```

## Direct Usage

```bash
# Run core tests (default)
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/run-all-tests.ts

# Run all tests
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/run-all-tests.ts --all

# Run specific test suite
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/run-all-tests.ts --secure-ownable
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/run-all-tests.ts --runtime-rbac
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/run-all-tests.ts --guard-controller
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/run-all-tests.ts --workflow
```

## Test Structure

### Core Tests (Required)
- **secure-ownable**: Ownership transfer, timelock, recovery, broadcaster SDK tests
- **runtime-rbac**: Role-based access control SDK tests
- **guard-controller**: Guard configuration and whitelist SDK tests

### Example Tests (Optional)
- **workflow**: Workflow integration tests

## Contract Configuration

All sanity tests use a **single account contract** (AccountBlox). Set `ACCOUNTBLOX_ADDRESS` in `.env` for manual mode; in auto mode the address is read from Truffle artifacts.

## Individual Test Suites

Each test suite can also be run individually:

```bash
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/secure-ownable/run-tests.ts --all
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/secure-ownable/run-tests.ts --meta-tx-exec
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/runtime-rbac/run-tests.ts --all
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/guard-controller/run-tests.ts --all
```

**Meta-tx execution (no UI):** `--meta-tx-exec` runs the full meta-transaction flow: request → off-chain sign → broadcaster executes → assert on-chain state. Use this to verify meta-tx execution without any UI.

Commit message:

feat: introduce ContractFunctionMustBeProtected error for enhanced function protection
This commit adds a new error type, ContractFunctionMustBeProtected, to the ABI definitions across multiple contracts, ensuring that all function schemas are explicitly protected. The change enhances security by providing clear feedback when unprotected function calls are attempted. Additionally, it updates the GuardController and related contracts to enforce this protection consistently, aligning with recent refactoring efforts to strengthen role-based access control and execution parameters.

scripts/sanity-sdk/README.md, after:

# Sanity SDK Tests

Master test runner for TypeScript SDK sanity tests of the Bloxchain protocol.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Run core tests (default: secure-ownable, runtime-rbac, guard-controller)
npm run test:sanity-sdk

# Run all tests (core + examples)
npm run test:sanity-sdk:all

# Run example tests only
npm run test:sanity-sdk:examples
```

## Direct Usage

```bash
# Run core tests (default)
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/run-all-tests.ts

# Run all tests
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/run-all-tests.ts --all

# Run specific test suite
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/run-all-tests.ts --secure-ownable
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/run-all-tests.ts --runtime-rbac
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/run-all-tests.ts --guard-controller
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/run-all-tests.ts --workflow
```

## Test Structure

### Core Tests (Required)
- **secure-ownable**: Ownership transfer, timelock, recovery, broadcaster SDK tests
- **runtime-rbac**: Role-based access control SDK tests
- **guard-controller**: Guard configuration and whitelist SDK tests

### Example Tests (Optional)
- **workflow**: Workflow integration tests

## Connection and .env

Connection uses **only `.env`** (same as `scripts/sanity`): no RPC override from code. Each `run-tests.ts` imports `load-env` first so `.env` is loaded before any other module.

- **RPC**: Set `RPC_URL` (full URL) or `REMOTE_HOST` in `.env`; optional `REMOTE_PROTOCOL` (default `https`) and `REMOTE_PORT` (default `443`). No localhost fallback—connection is from .env only.
- **Chain ID**: `REMOTE_NETWORK_ID` or `CHAIN_ID` (default 1337).
- **Timeout**: Remote Ganache uses 30s RPC timeout by default. Override with `SANITY_SDK_RPC_TIMEOUT_MS` if needed.
- **Gas**: If you see "transaction underpriced", set `SANITY_SDK_GAS_PRICE_GWEI` (e.g. `10`).
- **Runtime RBAC**: If role creation fails on your chain with TxStatus 6, you can skip the RBAC workflow and still get a green run by setting `SANITY_SDK_RBAC_SKIP_IF_CREATE_FAILED=1` in `.env` or the shell.

## Contract Configuration

All sanity tests use a **single account contract** (AccountBlox). Set `ACCOUNTBLOX_ADDRESS` in `.env` for manual mode; in auto mode the address is read from Truffle artifacts.

## Individual Test Suites

Each test suite can also be run individually:

```bash
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/secure-ownable/run-tests.ts --all
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/secure-ownable/run-tests.ts --meta-tx-exec
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/runtime-rbac/run-tests.ts --all
npx tsx --tsconfig scripts/sanity-sdk/tsconfig.json scripts/sanity-sdk/guard-controller/run-tests.ts --all
```

**Meta-tx execution (no UI):** `--meta-tx-exec` runs the full meta-transaction flow: request → off-chain sign → broadcaster executes → assert on-chain state. Use this to verify meta-tx execution without any UI.
