sdk/typescript/docs/state-abstraction.md, before:

# State Abstraction Framework

## Overview

The State Abstraction framework represents a revolutionary approach to blockchain security and operation management. Unlike traditional smart contract patterns, State Abstraction focuses on **abstracting the complexity of state transitions** and **securing operation workflows** through time-locked, multi-phase processes.

## Core Philosophy

### What is State Abstraction?

State Abstraction is the process of **abstracting complex state transitions** into manageable, secure, and verifiable operations. It provides:

- **Secure State Machine**: Manages operation lifecycles with explicit state transitions
- **Time-Locked Operations**: Ensures operations cannot be executed immediately, providing security through delay
- **Multi-Phase Workflows**: Breaks complex operations into manageable phases
- **Meta-Transaction Support**: Enables delegated approvals and gas sponsorship
- **Dynamic Role-Based Access Control**: Flexible permission systems that can be configured at runtime

### Key Differentiators

| Feature | Traditional Smart Contracts | State Abstraction |
|---------|---------------------------|-------------------|
| **Execution Model** | Immediate execution | Time-locked, multi-phase |
| **Security Model** | Single-point validation | Multi-layer security with delays |
| **State Management** | Direct state changes | Abstracted state transitions |
| **Operation Lifecycle** | Atomic transactions | Phased workflows |
| **Access Control** | Static permissions | Dynamic, role-based |

## Architecture Components

### 1. State Machine Engine

The core of State Abstraction is the **Secure State Machine** that manages operation lifecycles:

```typescript
enum TxStatus {
    PENDING = 0,    // Operation requested, waiting for time lock
    APPROVED = 1,   // Time lock expired, ready for execution
    CANCELLED = 2,  // Operation cancelled by authorized party
    EXECUTED = 3    // Operation completed successfully
}
```

**State Transitions:**
- `PENDING` → `APPROVED` (after time lock period)
- `PENDING` → `CANCELLED` (by authorized party)
- `APPROVED` → `EXECUTED` (upon successful execution)

### 2. Time-Locked Operations

Every critical operation requires a **time lock period** before execution:

```solidity
struct SecureOperationState {
    uint256 txId;           // Unique transaction identifier
    uint256 releaseTime;    // When operation can be executed
    TxStatus status;        // Current state
    TxParams params;        // Operation parameters
    bytes32 message;        // EIP-712 message hash
    bytes result;           // Execution result
    PaymentDetails payment; // Payment information
}
```

**Security Benefits:**
- **Prevents Immediate Execution**: Critical operations cannot be executed instantly
- **Allows Review Period**: Stakeholders have time to review and potentially cancel
- **Reduces Risk**: Time delays reduce the impact of compromised keys

### 3. Multi-Phase Workflows

Operations are broken into **phases** for better management:

1. **Request Phase**: Operation is submitted and validated
2. **Time Lock Phase**: Operation waits for the time lock period
3. **Approval Phase**: Operation is ready for execution
4. **Execution Phase**: Operation is executed and results recorded

### 4. Meta-Transaction Support

State Abstraction supports **meta-transactions** for enhanced UX:

```typescript
interface MetaTransaction {
    txRecord: TxRecord;
    params: MetaTxParams;
    signature: string;
    data: string;
}
```

**Benefits:**
- **Gas Sponsorship**: Users don't need ETH for gas
- **Delegated Approvals**: Operations can be approved by different parties
- **Batch Operations**: Multiple operations can be bundled together

## Use Cases

### 1. Secure Ownership Management

```typescript
// Request ownership transfer with time lock
const txId = await secureOwnable.transferOwnershipRequest(
    newOwnerAddress,
    { timeLockPeriod: 86400 } // 24 hours
);

// Wait for time lock period
await waitForTimeLock(txId);

// Execute the transfer
await secureOwnable.executeTransferOwnership(txId);
```

### 2. Dynamic Role Management

```typescript
// Create a new role with specific permissions via batch
// Note: Role management uses batch operations for atomic execution
const createRoleAction = {
  actionType: 0, // CREATE_ROLE
  data: encodeAbiParameters(
    ['string', 'uint256', 'tuple[]'],
    ['TreasuryManager', 5, functionPermissions]
  )
}
// Execute via roleConfigBatchRequestAndApprove with meta-transaction

// Add wallet to role via batch
const addWalletAction = {
  actionType: 2, // ADD_WALLET
  data: encodeAbiParameters(
    ['bytes32', 'address'],
    [roleHash, walletAddress]
  )
}
// Execute via roleConfigBatchRequestAndApprove with meta-transaction
```

### 3. Multi-Signature Operations

```typescript
// Request critical operation
const txId = await contract.requestOperation("CRITICAL_TRANSFER");

// Multiple parties can approve
await contract.approveOperation(txId, { from: party1 });
await contract.approveOperation(txId, { from: party2 });

// Execute after approvals
await contract.executeOperation(txId);
```

## Security Features

### 1. Time-Lock Security

- **Configurable Delays**: Time lock periods can be set per operation type
- **Emergency Overrides**: Critical situations can bypass time locks
- **Cancellation Rights**: Authorized parties can cancel pending operations

### 2. EIP-712 Signatures

- **Type-Safe Signatures**: All meta-transactions use EIP-712 standard
- **Domain Separation**: Each contract has its own signature domain
- **Replay Protection**: Nonces prevent signature reuse

### 3. Role-Based Access Control

- **Dynamic Roles**: Roles can be created and modified at runtime
- **Function-Level Permissions**: Granular control over specific functions
- **Hierarchical Permissions**: Roles can inherit permissions from other roles

### 4. State Validation

- **Pre-Execution Checks**: All operations are validated before execution
- **Post-Execution Verification**: Results are verified after execution
- **State Consistency**: Ensures state transitions are valid

## Implementation Patterns

### 1. Operation Request Pattern

```typescript
async function requestOperation(
    operationType: string,
    params: any,
    options: OperationOptions
): Promise<number> {
    // Validate parameters
    validateOperationParams(operationType, params);
    
    // Create operation request
    const txId = await contract.requestOperation(
        operationType,
        params,
        options
    );
    
    // Emit event for monitoring
    emit('OperationRequested', { txId, operationType, params });
    
    return txId;
}
```

### 2. Time Lock Management

```typescript
async function waitForTimeLock(txId: number): Promise<void> {
    const operation = await contract.getOperation(txId);
    const currentTime = await getCurrentBlockTime();
    
    if (operation.releaseTime > currentTime) {
        const waitTime = operation.releaseTime - currentTime;
        console.log(`Waiting ${waitTime} seconds for time lock...`);
        await sleep(waitTime * 1000);
    }
}
```

### 3. Execution with Validation

```typescript
async function executeOperation(txId: number): Promise<any> {
    // Verify operation is ready
    const operation = await contract.getOperation(txId);
    if (operation.status !== TxStatus.APPROVED) {
        throw new Error('Operation not ready for execution');
    }
    
    // Execute operation
    const result = await contract.executeOperation(txId);
    
    // Verify execution
    if (result.success) {
        console.log('Operation executed successfully');
        return result.data;
    } else {
        throw new Error('Operation execution failed');
    }
}
```

## Best Practices

### 1. Time Lock Configuration

- **Set Appropriate Delays**: Balance security with usability
- **Use Different Periods**: Critical operations need longer delays
- **Monitor Time Locks**: Track pending operations and their release times

### 2. Role Management

- **Principle of Least Privilege**: Grant minimum necessary permissions
- **Regular Audits**: Review and update role assignments
- **Emergency Procedures**: Have plans for critical situations

### 3. Operation Design

- **Atomic Operations**: Keep operations focused and atomic
- **Clear Parameters**: Use descriptive parameter names
- **Error Handling**: Implement comprehensive error handling

### 4. Monitoring and Alerting

- **Operation Tracking**: Monitor all operation lifecycles
- **Alert Systems**: Set up alerts for critical operations
- **Audit Logs**: Maintain comprehensive operation logs

## Integration Examples

### 1. DeFi Protocol Integration

```typescript
class DeFiProtocol {
    constructor(secureOwnable: SecureOwnable) {
        this.secureOwnable = secureOwnable;
    }
    
    async requestLiquidityWithdrawal(
        amount: BigNumber,
        recipient: string
    ): Promise<number> {
        return await this.secureOwnable.requestOperation(
            "WITHDRAW_LIQUIDITY",
            { amount, recipient },
            { timeLockPeriod: 3600 } // 1 hour
        );
    }
}
```

### 2. DAO Governance Integration

```typescript
class DAOGovernance {
    constructor(runtimeRBAC: RuntimeRBAC) {
        this.runtimeRBAC = runtimeRBAC;
    }
    
    async createProposal(
        description: string,
        actions: any[]
    ): Promise<number> {
        // Create proposal role via batch operation
        // Note: Use roleConfigBatchRequestAndApprove with CREATE_ROLE action
        // See runtime-rbac.md for complete batch configuration examples
        );
        
        // Submit proposal
        return await this.submitProposal(description, actions);
    }
}
```

## Future Enhancements

### 1. Cross-Chain State Abstraction

- **Multi-Chain Operations**: Operations that span multiple blockchains
- **State Synchronization**: Keep state consistent across chains
- **Cross-Chain Time Locks**: Time locks that work across chains

### 2. Advanced State Machines

- **Conditional Transitions**: State transitions based on external conditions
- **Parallel Operations**: Multiple operations running simultaneously
- **State Dependencies**: Operations that depend on other operations

### 3. Enhanced Security Features

- **Hardware Security Modules**: Integration with HSM for key management
- **Zero-Knowledge Proofs**: Privacy-preserving operation validation
- **Formal Verification**: Mathematical proofs of operation correctness

## Conclusion

State Abstraction represents a paradigm shift in blockchain security and operation management. By abstracting complex state transitions into secure, time-locked, multi-phase workflows, it provides:

- **Enhanced Security**: Time locks and multi-phase validation
- **Better UX**: Meta-transactions and delegated approvals
- **Flexible Access Control**: Dynamic role-based permissions
- **Comprehensive Monitoring**: Full operation lifecycle tracking

The framework is designed to be **modular**, **extensible**, and **secure**, making it suitable for a wide range of applications from DeFi protocols to DAO governance systems.

---

*For more information, see the [API Reference](./api-reference.md) and [Examples](./examples-basic.md).*

Commit message:

docs: update TypeScript SDK documentation for improved clarity and examples
This commit enhances the TypeScript SDK documentation by correcting import statements and providing additional context for batch role configuration examples. It clarifies the exclusion of the `contracts/examples/` directory from MPL-2.0 licensing in the README, and updates the action definitions in the SDK documentation to ensure accurate usage of the `encodeAbiParameters` and `parseAbiParameters` functions. These changes aim to improve the overall clarity and usability of the documentation for developers.

sdk/typescript/docs/state-abstraction.md, after:

# State Abstraction Framework

## Overview

The State Abstraction framework represents a revolutionary approach to blockchain security and operation management. Unlike traditional smart contract patterns, State Abstraction focuses on **abstracting the complexity of state transitions** and **securing operation workflows** through time-locked, multi-phase processes.

## Core Philosophy

### What is State Abstraction?

State Abstraction is the process of **abstracting complex state transitions** into manageable, secure, and verifiable operations. It provides:

- **Secure State Machine**: Manages operation lifecycles with explicit state transitions
- **Time-Locked Operations**: Ensures operations cannot be executed immediately, providing security through delay
- **Multi-Phase Workflows**: Breaks complex operations into manageable phases
- **Meta-Transaction Support**: Enables delegated approvals and gas sponsorship
- **Dynamic Role-Based Access Control**: Flexible permission systems that can be configured at runtime

### Key Differentiators

| Feature | Traditional Smart Contracts | State Abstraction |
|---------|---------------------------|-------------------|
| **Execution Model** | Immediate execution | Time-locked, multi-phase |
| **Security Model** | Single-point validation | Multi-layer security with delays |
| **State Management** | Direct state changes | Abstracted state transitions |
| **Operation Lifecycle** | Atomic transactions | Phased workflows |
| **Access Control** | Static permissions | Dynamic, role-based |

## Architecture Components

### 1. State Machine Engine

The core of State Abstraction is the **Secure State Machine** that manages operation lifecycles:

```typescript
enum TxStatus {
    PENDING = 0,    // Operation requested, waiting for time lock
    APPROVED = 1,   // Time lock expired, ready for execution
    CANCELLED = 2,  // Operation cancelled by authorized party
    EXECUTED = 3    // Operation completed successfully
}
```

**State Transitions:**
- `PENDING` → `APPROVED` (after time lock period)
- `PENDING` → `CANCELLED` (by authorized party)
- `APPROVED` → `EXECUTED` (upon successful execution)

### 2. Time-Locked Operations

Every critical operation requires a **time lock period** before execution:

```solidity
struct SecureOperationState {
    uint256 txId;           // Unique transaction identifier
    uint256 releaseTime;    // When operation can be executed
    TxStatus status;        // Current state
    TxParams params;        // Operation parameters
    bytes32 message;        // EIP-712 message hash
    bytes result;           // Execution result
    PaymentDetails payment; // Payment information
}
```

**Security Benefits:**
- **Prevents Immediate Execution**: Critical operations cannot be executed instantly
- **Allows Review Period**: Stakeholders have time to review and potentially cancel
- **Reduces Risk**: Time delays reduce the impact of compromised keys

### 3. Multi-Phase Workflows

Operations are broken into **phases** for better management:

1. **Request Phase**: Operation is submitted and validated
2. **Time Lock Phase**: Operation waits for the time lock period
3. **Approval Phase**: Operation is ready for execution
4. **Execution Phase**: Operation is executed and results recorded

### 4. Meta-Transaction Support

State Abstraction supports **meta-transactions** for enhanced UX:

```typescript
interface MetaTransaction {
    txRecord: TxRecord;
    params: MetaTxParams;
    signature: string;
    data: string;
}
```

**Benefits:**
- **Gas Sponsorship**: Users don't need ETH for gas
- **Delegated Approvals**: Operations can be approved by different parties
- **Batch Operations**: Multiple operations can be bundled together

## Use Cases

### 1. Secure Ownership Management

```typescript
// Request ownership transfer with time lock
const txId = await secureOwnable.transferOwnershipRequest(
    newOwnerAddress,
    { timeLockPeriod: 86400 } // 24 hours
);

// Wait for time lock period
await waitForTimeLock(txId);

// Execute the transfer
await secureOwnable.executeTransferOwnership(txId);
```

### 2. Dynamic Role Management

> **Note**: The examples below show action definitions for batch role configuration. For complete execution code including meta-transaction construction and `roleConfigBatchRequestAndApprove` calls, see [runtime-rbac.md](./runtime-rbac.md) for detailed batch configuration examples.

```typescript
// Create a new role with specific permissions via batch
// Note: Role management uses batch operations for atomic execution
const createRoleAction = {
  actionType: 0, // CREATE_ROLE
  data: encodeAbiParameters(
    ['string', 'uint256', 'tuple[]'],
    ['TreasuryManager', 5, functionPermissions]
  )
}
// Execute via roleConfigBatchRequestAndApprove with meta-transaction

// Add wallet to role via batch
const addWalletAction = {
  actionType: 2, // ADD_WALLET
  data: encodeAbiParameters(
    ['bytes32', 'address'],
    [roleHash, walletAddress]
  )
}
// Execute via roleConfigBatchRequestAndApprove with meta-transaction
```

### 3. Multi-Signature Operations

```typescript
// Request critical operation
const txId = await contract.requestOperation("CRITICAL_TRANSFER");

// Multiple parties can approve
await contract.approveOperation(txId, { from: party1 });
await contract.approveOperation(txId, { from: party2 });

// Execute after approvals
await contract.executeOperation(txId);
```

## Security Features

### 1. Time-Lock Security

- **Configurable Delays**: Time lock periods can be set per operation type
- **Emergency Overrides**: Critical situations can bypass time locks
- **Cancellation Rights**: Authorized parties can cancel pending operations

### 2. EIP-712 Signatures

- **Type-Safe Signatures**: All meta-transactions use EIP-712 standard
- **Domain Separation**: Each contract has its own signature domain
- **Replay Protection**: Nonces prevent signature reuse

### 3. Role-Based Access Control

- **Dynamic Roles**: Roles can be created and modified at runtime
- **Function-Level Permissions**: Granular control over specific functions
- **Hierarchical Permissions**: Roles can inherit permissions from other roles

### 4. State Validation

- **Pre-Execution Checks**: All operations are validated before execution
- **Post-Execution Verification**: Results are verified after execution
- **State Consistency**: Ensures state transitions are valid

## Implementation Patterns

### 1. Operation Request Pattern

```typescript
async function requestOperation(
    operationType: string,
    params: any,
    options: OperationOptions
): Promise<number> {
    // Validate parameters
    validateOperationParams(operationType, params);
    
    // Create operation request
    const txId = await contract.requestOperation(
        operationType,
        params,
        options
    );
    
    // Emit event for monitoring
    emit('OperationRequested', { txId, operationType, params });
    
    return txId;
}
```

### 2. Time Lock Management

```typescript
async function waitForTimeLock(txId: number): Promise<void> {
    const operation = await contract.getOperation(txId);
    const currentTime = await getCurrentBlockTime();
    
    if (operation.releaseTime > currentTime) {
        const waitTime = operation.releaseTime - currentTime;
        console.log(`Waiting ${waitTime} seconds for time lock...`);
        await sleep(waitTime * 1000);
    }
}
```

### 3. Execution with Validation

```typescript
async function executeOperation(txId: number): Promise<any> {
    // Verify operation is ready
    const operation = await contract.getOperation(txId);
    if (operation.status !== TxStatus.APPROVED) {
        throw new Error('Operation not ready for execution');
    }
    
    // Execute operation
    const result = await contract.executeOperation(txId);
    
    // Verify execution
    if (result.success) {
        console.log('Operation executed successfully');
        return result.data;
    } else {
        throw new Error('Operation execution failed');
    }
}
```

## Best Practices

### 1. Time Lock Configuration

- **Set Appropriate Delays**: Balance security with usability
- **Use Different Periods**: Critical operations need longer delays
- **Monitor Time Locks**: Track pending operations and their release times

### 2. Role Management

- **Principle of Least Privilege**: Grant minimum necessary permissions
- **Regular Audits**: Review and update role assignments
- **Emergency Procedures**: Have plans for critical situations

### 3. Operation Design

- **Atomic Operations**: Keep operations focused and atomic
- **Clear Parameters**: Use descriptive parameter names
- **Error Handling**: Implement comprehensive error handling

### 4. Monitoring and Alerting

- **Operation Tracking**: Monitor all operation lifecycles
- **Alert Systems**: Set up alerts for critical operations
- **Audit Logs**: Maintain comprehensive operation logs

## Integration Examples

### 1. DeFi Protocol Integration

```typescript
class DeFiProtocol {
    constructor(secureOwnable: SecureOwnable) {
        this.secureOwnable = secureOwnable;
    }
    
    async requestLiquidityWithdrawal(
        amount: BigNumber,
        recipient: string
    ): Promise<number> {
        return await this.secureOwnable.requestOperation(
            "WITHDRAW_LIQUIDITY",
            { amount, recipient },
            { timeLockPeriod: 3600 } // 1 hour
        );
    }
}
```

### 2. DAO Governance Integration

```typescript
class DAOGovernance {
    constructor(runtimeRBAC: RuntimeRBAC) {
        this.runtimeRBAC = runtimeRBAC;
    }
    
    async createProposal(
        description: string,
        actions: any[]
    ): Promise<number> {
        // Create proposal role via batch operation
        // Note: Use roleConfigBatchRequestAndApprove with CREATE_ROLE action
        // See runtime-rbac.md for complete batch configuration examples
        );
        
        // Submit proposal
        return await this.submitProposal(description, actions);
    }
}
```

## Future Enhancements

### 1. Cross-Chain State Abstraction

- **Multi-Chain Operations**: Operations that span multiple blockchains
- **State Synchronization**: Keep state consistent across chains
- **Cross-Chain Time Locks**: Time locks that work across chains

### 2. Advanced State Machines

- **Conditional Transitions**: State transitions based on external conditions
- **Parallel Operations**: Multiple operations running simultaneously
- **State Dependencies**: Operations that depend on other operations

### 3. Enhanced Security Features

- **Hardware Security Modules**: Integration with HSM for key management
- **Zero-Knowledge Proofs**: Privacy-preserving operation validation
- **Formal Verification**: Mathematical proofs of operation correctness

## Conclusion

State Abstraction represents a paradigm shift in blockchain security and operation management. By abstracting complex state transitions into secure, time-locked, multi-phase workflows, it provides:

- **Enhanced Security**: Time locks and multi-phase validation
- **Better UX**: Meta-transactions and delegated approvals
- **Flexible Access Control**: Dynamic role-based permissions
- **Comprehensive Monitoring**: Full operation lifecycle tracking

The framework is designed to be **modular**, **extensible**, and **secure**, making it suitable for a wide range of applications from DeFi protocols to DAO governance systems.

---

*For more information, see the [API Reference](./api-reference.md) and [Examples](./examples-basic.md).*
