sdk/typescript/README.md, before:

# Bloxchain Protocol TypeScript SDK

A comprehensive TypeScript SDK for interacting with the Bloxchain Protocol smart contracts, providing type-safe interfaces for secure multi-phase operations, dynamic role-based access control, and state abstraction.

## 🏗️ **Unique Architecture**

Bloxchain Protocol implements a **state machine architecture** with `SecureOperationState` as the core engine, providing:

- **Centralized State Management**: All security operations flow through a unified state machine
- **Multi-Phase Transaction Processing**: Time-locked operations with request/approval workflows
- **Dynamic Role-Based Access Control**: Flexible, hierarchical permission system
- **Meta-Transaction Support**: Gasless transactions and delegated execution
- **Event-Driven Architecture**: Comprehensive audit trails and external monitoring

## Features

- **SecureOwnable**: Multi-phase ownership management with time-locked operations
- **DynamicRBAC**: Dynamic role-based access control system
- **Definitions**: Dynamic interaction with any definition library implementing IDefinition
- **Guardian**: State abstraction with secure operations
- **Type Safety**: Full TypeScript support with comprehensive type definitions
- **Viem Integration**: Built on top of Viem for modern Ethereum development

## 📚 Documentation

Comprehensive documentation is available in the [`docs/`](./docs/) directory:

### **🏗️ Architecture & Design**
- **[Protocol Architecture](./docs/bloxchain-architecture.md)** - Bloxchain protocol overview and design principles
- **[State Machine Engine](./docs/state-machine-engine.md)** - SecureOperationState engine and state management
- **[Architecture Patterns](./docs/architecture-patterns.md)** - Design patterns and best practices

### **🚀 Getting Started**
- **[Getting Started](./docs/getting-started.md)** - Quick setup and basic usage
- **[API Reference](./docs/api-reference.md)** - Complete API documentation
- **[SecureOwnable Guide](./docs/secure-ownable.md)** - Ownership management
- **[DynamicRBAC Guide](./docs/dynamic-rbac.md)** - Role-based access control

### **🔍 Development Tools**
- **[Best Practices](./docs/best-practices.md)** - Development guidelines
- **[Examples](./docs/examples-basic.md)** - Practical code samples
- **[Types & Interfaces](./docs/types-interfaces.md)** - Type definitions

**📖 [View All Documentation](./docs/README.md)**

## Installation

```bash
npm install viem
```

## Quick Start

```typescript
import { 
  SecureOwnable, 
  DynamicRBAC,
  Definitions,
  type Address,
  type PublicClient,
  type WalletClient,
  type Chain
} from './index';

// Initialize clients (using your preferred provider)
const publicClient: PublicClient = createPublicClient({...});
const walletClient: WalletClient = createWalletClient({...});
const chain: Chain = mainnet; // or your target chain

// Initialize SDK classes
const secureOwnable = new SecureOwnable(
  publicClient,
  walletClient,
  contractAddress,
  chain
);

const dynamicRBAC = new DynamicRBAC(
  publicClient,
  walletClient,
  contractAddress,
  chain
);

const definitions = new Definitions(
  publicClient,
  walletClient,
  definitionsAddress,
  chain
);
```

## SecureOwnable Usage

### Ownership Management

```typescript
// Request ownership transfer
const txResult = await secureOwnable.transferOwnershipRequest({
  from: ownerAddress
});

// Approve after time lock period
const approvalResult = await secureOwnable.transferOwnershipDelayedApproval(
  txId,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);

// Cancel ownership transfer
const cancelResult = await secureOwnable.transferOwnershipCancellation(
  txId,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);
```

### Meta Transactions

```typescript
// Create meta transaction parameters
const metaTxParams = await secureOwnable.createMetaTxParams(
  handlerContract,
  handlerSelector,
  deadline,
  maxGasPrice,
  signer
);

// Generate unsigned meta transaction
const metaTx = await secureOwnable.generateUnsignedMetaTransactionForNew(
  requester,
  target,
  value,
  gasLimit,
  operationType,
  executionType,
  executionOptions,
  metaTxParams
);
```

## DynamicRBAC Usage

### Role Management

```typescript
// Create a new role
const createResult = await dynamicRBAC.createRole(
  "ADMIN_ROLE",
  5n, // max 5 wallets
  { from: ownerAddress }
);

// Update role properties
const updateResult = await dynamicRBAC.updateRole(
  roleHash,
  "UPDATED_ADMIN_ROLE",
  10n, // new max wallets
  { from: ownerAddress }
);

// Delete a role
const deleteResult = await dynamicRBAC.deleteRole(
  roleHash,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);
```

### Wallet Management

```typescript
// Add wallet to role
const addResult = await dynamicRBAC.addWalletToRole(
  roleHash,
  walletAddress,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);

// Remove wallet from role
const revokeResult = await dynamicRBAC.revokeWallet(
  roleHash,
  walletAddress,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);

// Replace wallet in role
const replaceResult = await dynamicRBAC.replaceWalletInRole(
  roleHash,
  newWalletAddress,
  oldWalletAddress,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);
```

### Permission Management

```typescript
// Add function permission to role
const addPermissionResult = await dynamicRBAC.addFunctionPermissionToRole(
  roleHash,
  functionSelector,
  TxAction.EXECUTE_TIME_DELAY_APPROVE,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);

// Remove function permission from role
const removePermissionResult = await dynamicRBAC.removeFunctionPermissionFromRole(
  roleHash,
  functionSelector,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);
```

### Query Functions

```typescript
// Get all dynamic roles
const dynamicRoles = await dynamicRBAC.getDynamicRoles();

// Get role information
const roleInfo = await dynamicRBAC.getRoleInfo(roleHash);
console.log(roleInfo.roleName, roleInfo.maxWallets, roleInfo.isProtected);

// Check if wallet has role
const hasRole = await dynamicRBAC.hasRole(roleHash, walletAddress);

// Get wallets in role
const wallets = await dynamicRBAC.getWalletsInRole(roleHash);

// Get role permissions
const permissions = await dynamicRBAC.getRolePermissions(roleHash);
```

## Definitions Usage

The `Definitions` class provides dynamic interaction with any definition library that implements the `IDefinition` interface. This allows you to query operation types, function schemas, role permissions, and workflow definitions from any compatible contract.

### Basic Usage

```typescript
// Initialize Definitions
const definitions = new Definitions(
  publicClient,
  walletClient,
  definitionsAddress,
  chain
);

// Get all operation types
const operationTypes = await definitions.getOperationTypes();
console.log('Available operations:', operationTypes);

// Get all function schemas
const functionSchemas = await definitions.getFunctionSchemas();
console.log('Function schemas:', functionSchemas);

// Get role permissions
const rolePermissions = await definitions.getRolePermissions();
console.log('Role permissions:', rolePermissions);
```

### Workflow Management

```typescript
// Get all operation workflows
const workflows = await definitions.getOperationWorkflows();
console.log('Available workflows:', workflows);

// Get workflow for specific operation
const operationType = '0x1234...'; // operation type hash
const workflow = await definitions.getWorkflowForOperation(operationType);
console.log('Workflow for operation:', workflow);

// Get all workflow paths
const paths = await definitions.getWorkflowPaths();
console.log('Available paths:', paths);
```

### Utility Functions

```typescript
// Find operation type by name
const operationType = await definitions.getOperationTypeByName('TRANSFER_OWNERSHIP');
console.log('Operation type hash:', operationType);

// Get function schema by selector
const functionSelector = '0xabcd...';
const schema = await definitions.getFunctionSchemaBySelector(functionSelector);
console.log('Function schema:', schema);

// Check role permission for function
const roleHash = '0xefgh...';
const hasPermission = await definitions.hasRolePermission(roleHash, functionSelector);
console.log('Has permission:', hasPermission);

// Get all roles that can execute a function
const allowedRoles = await definitions.getRolesForFunction(functionSelector);
console.log('Allowed roles:', allowedRoles);
```

### Configuration Management

```typescript
// Get current configuration
const config = definitions.getConfig();
console.log('Current config:', config);

// Update configuration
definitions.updateConfig({
  chainId: 137, // Polygon
  rpcUrl: 'https://polygon-rpc.com'
});
```

## Types and Constants

### Transaction Actions

```typescript
import { TxAction } from './types/lib.index';

// Available transaction actions
TxAction.EXECUTE_TIME_DELAY_REQUEST
TxAction.EXECUTE_TIME_DELAY_APPROVE
TxAction.EXECUTE_TIME_DELAY_CANCEL
TxAction.SIGN_META_REQUEST_AND_APPROVE
TxAction.SIGN_META_APPROVE
TxAction.SIGN_META_CANCEL
TxAction.EXECUTE_META_REQUEST_AND_APPROVE
TxAction.EXECUTE_META_APPROVE
TxAction.EXECUTE_META_CANCEL
```

### Execution Types

```typescript
import { ExecutionType } from './types/lib.index';

ExecutionType.NONE
ExecutionType.STANDARD
ExecutionType.RAW
```

### Transaction Status

```typescript
import { TxStatus } from './types/lib.index';

TxStatus.UNDEFINED
TxStatus.PENDING
TxStatus.CANCELLED
TxStatus.COMPLETED
TxStatus.FAILED
TxStatus.REJECTED
```

## Error Handling

All SDK methods throw errors for failed operations. Always wrap SDK calls in try-catch blocks:

```typescript
try {
  const result = await secureOwnable.transferOwnershipRequest({
    from: ownerAddress
  });
  console.log('Transaction successful:', result.hash);
} catch (error) {
  console.error('Transaction failed:', error);
}
```

## Security Considerations

- Always validate addresses and parameters before making transactions
- Use proper time-lock periods for critical operations
- Implement proper access control using DynamicRBAC
- Monitor transaction status and handle failures appropriately
- Keep private keys secure and never expose them in client-side code

## Contributing

When contributing to the SDK:

1. Follow TypeScript best practices
2. Add comprehensive type definitions
3. Include JSDoc comments for all public methods
4. Test all new functionality thoroughly
5. Update this README with new features

## License

This SDK is part of the Bloxchain Protocol and follows the same licensing terms.

Commit message:

Add TypeScript SDK with ABI extraction and build scripts
Introduces a new TypeScript SDK package with ABIs, build configuration, and npmignore. Updates ABI extraction script to output ABIs to both root and SDK locations. Adjusts references in scripts and documentation to use the new SDK structure and ABIs.

sdk/typescript/README.md, after:

# Bloxchain Protocol TypeScript SDK

A comprehensive TypeScript SDK for interacting with the Bloxchain Protocol smart contracts, providing type-safe interfaces for secure multi-phase operations, dynamic role-based access control, and state abstraction.

## 🏗️ **Unique Architecture**

Bloxchain Protocol implements a **state machine architecture** with `SecureOperationState` as the core engine, providing:

- **Centralized State Management**: All security operations flow through a unified state machine
- **Multi-Phase Transaction Processing**: Time-locked operations with request/approval workflows
- **Dynamic Role-Based Access Control**: Flexible, hierarchical permission system
- **Meta-Transaction Support**: Gasless transactions and delegated execution
- **Event-Driven Architecture**: Comprehensive audit trails and external monitoring

## Features

- **SecureOwnable**: Multi-phase ownership management with time-locked operations
- **DynamicRBAC**: Dynamic role-based access control system
- **Definitions**: Dynamic interaction with any definition library implementing IDefinition
- **Guardian**: State abstraction with secure operations
- **Type Safety**: Full TypeScript support with comprehensive type definitions
- **Viem Integration**: Built on top of Viem for modern Ethereum development

## 📚 Documentation

Comprehensive documentation is available in the [`docs/`](./docs/) directory:

### **🏗️ Architecture & Design**
- **[Protocol Architecture](./docs/bloxchain-architecture.md)** - Bloxchain protocol overview and design principles
- **[State Machine Engine](./docs/state-machine-engine.md)** - SecureOperationState engine and state management
- **[Architecture Patterns](./docs/architecture-patterns.md)** - Design patterns and best practices

### **🚀 Getting Started**
- **[Getting Started](./docs/getting-started.md)** - Quick setup and basic usage
- **[API Reference](./docs/api-reference.md)** - Complete API documentation
- **[SecureOwnable Guide](./docs/secure-ownable.md)** - Ownership management
- **[DynamicRBAC Guide](./docs/dynamic-rbac.md)** - Role-based access control

### **🔍 Development Tools**
- **[Best Practices](./docs/best-practices.md)** - Development guidelines
- **[Examples](./docs/examples-basic.md)** - Practical code samples
- **[Types & Interfaces](./docs/types-interfaces.md)** - Type definitions

**📖 [View All Documentation](./docs/README.md)**

## Installation

```bash
# Install the SDK package
npm install @bloxchain/sdk

# Or install from the repository
npm install https://github.com/PracticalParticle/Bloxchain-Protocol.git#main --save

# The SDK requires viem as a peer dependency
npm install viem
```

## Quick Start

```typescript
import { 
  SecureOwnable, 
  RuntimeRBAC,
  GuardController,
  Definitions,
  type Address,
  type PublicClient,
  type WalletClient,
  type Chain
} from '@bloxchain/sdk';

// Initialize clients (using your preferred provider)
const publicClient: PublicClient = createPublicClient({...});
const walletClient: WalletClient = createWalletClient({...});
const chain: Chain = mainnet; // or your target chain

// Initialize SDK classes
const secureOwnable = new SecureOwnable(
  publicClient,
  walletClient,
  contractAddress,
  chain
);

const dynamicRBAC = new DynamicRBAC(
  publicClient,
  walletClient,
  contractAddress,
  chain
);

const definitions = new Definitions(
  publicClient,
  walletClient,
  definitionsAddress,
  chain
);
```

## SecureOwnable Usage

### Ownership Management

```typescript
// Request ownership transfer
const txResult = await secureOwnable.transferOwnershipRequest({
  from: ownerAddress
});

// Approve after time lock period
const approvalResult = await secureOwnable.transferOwnershipDelayedApproval(
  txId,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);

// Cancel ownership transfer
const cancelResult = await secureOwnable.transferOwnershipCancellation(
  txId,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);
```

### Meta Transactions

```typescript
// Create meta transaction parameters
const metaTxParams = await secureOwnable.createMetaTxParams(
  handlerContract,
  handlerSelector,
  deadline,
  maxGasPrice,
  signer
);

// Generate unsigned meta transaction
const metaTx = await secureOwnable.generateUnsignedMetaTransactionForNew(
  requester,
  target,
  value,
  gasLimit,
  operationType,
  executionType,
  executionOptions,
  metaTxParams
);
```

## DynamicRBAC Usage

### Role Management

```typescript
// Create a new role
const createResult = await dynamicRBAC.createRole(
  "ADMIN_ROLE",
  5n, // max 5 wallets
  { from: ownerAddress }
);

// Update role properties
const updateResult = await dynamicRBAC.updateRole(
  roleHash,
  "UPDATED_ADMIN_ROLE",
  10n, // new max wallets
  { from: ownerAddress }
);

// Delete a role
const deleteResult = await dynamicRBAC.deleteRole(
  roleHash,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);
```

### Wallet Management

```typescript
// Add wallet to role
const addResult = await dynamicRBAC.addWalletToRole(
  roleHash,
  walletAddress,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);

// Remove wallet from role
const revokeResult = await dynamicRBAC.revokeWallet(
  roleHash,
  walletAddress,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);

// Replace wallet in role
const replaceResult = await dynamicRBAC.replaceWalletInRole(
  roleHash,
  newWalletAddress,
  oldWalletAddress,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);
```

### Permission Management

```typescript
// Add function permission to role
const addPermissionResult = await dynamicRBAC.addFunctionPermissionToRole(
  roleHash,
  functionSelector,
  TxAction.EXECUTE_TIME_DELAY_APPROVE,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);

// Remove function permission from role
const removePermissionResult = await dynamicRBAC.removeFunctionPermissionFromRole(
  roleHash,
  functionSelector,
  { from: ownerAddress }
);
```

### Query Functions

```typescript
// Get all dynamic roles
const dynamicRoles = await dynamicRBAC.getDynamicRoles();

// Get role information
const roleInfo = await dynamicRBAC.getRoleInfo(roleHash);
console.log(roleInfo.roleName, roleInfo.maxWallets, roleInfo.isProtected);

// Check if wallet has role
const hasRole = await dynamicRBAC.hasRole(roleHash, walletAddress);

// Get wallets in role
const wallets = await dynamicRBAC.getWalletsInRole(roleHash);

// Get role permissions
const permissions = await dynamicRBAC.getRolePermissions(roleHash);
```

## Definitions Usage

The `Definitions` class provides dynamic interaction with any definition library that implements the `IDefinition` interface. This allows you to query operation types, function schemas, role permissions, and workflow definitions from any compatible contract.

### Basic Usage

```typescript
// Initialize Definitions
const definitions = new Definitions(
  publicClient,
  walletClient,
  definitionsAddress,
  chain
);

// Get all operation types
const operationTypes = await definitions.getOperationTypes();
console.log('Available operations:', operationTypes);

// Get all function schemas
const functionSchemas = await definitions.getFunctionSchemas();
console.log('Function schemas:', functionSchemas);

// Get role permissions
const rolePermissions = await definitions.getRolePermissions();
console.log('Role permissions:', rolePermissions);
```

### Workflow Management

```typescript
// Get all operation workflows
const workflows = await definitions.getOperationWorkflows();
console.log('Available workflows:', workflows);

// Get workflow for specific operation
const operationType = '0x1234...'; // operation type hash
const workflow = await definitions.getWorkflowForOperation(operationType);
console.log('Workflow for operation:', workflow);

// Get all workflow paths
const paths = await definitions.getWorkflowPaths();
console.log('Available paths:', paths);
```

### Utility Functions

```typescript
// Find operation type by name
const operationType = await definitions.getOperationTypeByName('TRANSFER_OWNERSHIP');
console.log('Operation type hash:', operationType);

// Get function schema by selector
const functionSelector = '0xabcd...';
const schema = await definitions.getFunctionSchemaBySelector(functionSelector);
console.log('Function schema:', schema);

// Check role permission for function
const roleHash = '0xefgh...';
const hasPermission = await definitions.hasRolePermission(roleHash, functionSelector);
console.log('Has permission:', hasPermission);

// Get all roles that can execute a function
const allowedRoles = await definitions.getRolesForFunction(functionSelector);
console.log('Allowed roles:', allowedRoles);
```

### Configuration Management

```typescript
// Get current configuration
const config = definitions.getConfig();
console.log('Current config:', config);

// Update configuration
definitions.updateConfig({
  chainId: 137, // Polygon
  rpcUrl: 'https://polygon-rpc.com'
});
```

## Types and Constants

### Transaction Actions

```typescript
import { TxAction } from './types/lib.index';

// Available transaction actions
TxAction.EXECUTE_TIME_DELAY_REQUEST
TxAction.EXECUTE_TIME_DELAY_APPROVE
TxAction.EXECUTE_TIME_DELAY_CANCEL
TxAction.SIGN_META_REQUEST_AND_APPROVE
TxAction.SIGN_META_APPROVE
TxAction.SIGN_META_CANCEL
TxAction.EXECUTE_META_REQUEST_AND_APPROVE
TxAction.EXECUTE_META_APPROVE
TxAction.EXECUTE_META_CANCEL
```

### Execution Types

```typescript
import { ExecutionType } from './types/lib.index';

ExecutionType.NONE
ExecutionType.STANDARD
ExecutionType.RAW
```

### Transaction Status

```typescript
import { TxStatus } from './types/lib.index';

TxStatus.UNDEFINED
TxStatus.PENDING
TxStatus.CANCELLED
TxStatus.COMPLETED
TxStatus.FAILED
TxStatus.REJECTED
```

## Error Handling

All SDK methods throw errors for failed operations. Always wrap SDK calls in try-catch blocks:

```typescript
try {
  const result = await secureOwnable.transferOwnershipRequest({
    from: ownerAddress
  });
  console.log('Transaction successful:', result.hash);
} catch (error) {
  console.error('Transaction failed:', error);
}
```

## Security Considerations

- Always validate addresses and parameters before making transactions
- Use proper time-lock periods for critical operations
- Implement proper access control using DynamicRBAC
- Monitor transaction status and handle failures appropriately
- Keep private keys secure and never expose them in client-side code

## Contributing

When contributing to the SDK:

1. Follow TypeScript best practices
2. Add comprehensive type definitions
3. Include JSDoc comments for all public methods
4. Test all new functionality thoroughly
5. Update this README with new features

## License

This SDK is part of the Bloxchain Protocol and follows the same licensing terms.
